Conflicts and Stress (#95)
MiniFate/MiniFate: _chapters/00-outline.md

NPCs include everyone from background characters at a pirate bar, to marauding goblins attacking a small village, to the general of the empire's army who is more than he seems.

NPCs are more free-form than PCs.
The GM should use whatever components---aspects, refresh, consequences---the NPCs needs to fulfill their role in the narrative.
For example, background NPCs may only need a name.

> NPCs intended to act as a minor obstacle, such as guards trying to keep the PCs out of the king's ball, need only a single aspect about their motivation.

Reviewer: Are these hard rules or loose examples?

Author: Examples.

Recurring NPCs can have a few aspects with appropriate values.

> If a NPC suddenly becomes more important, you can add aspects as needed to give them more narrative weight which develops the character and their story organically.

Reviewer: a*n* NPC?

> If a NPC suddenly becomes more important, you can add aspects as needed to give them more narrative weight which develops the character and their story organically.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If an NPC becomes unexpectedly important, you can add an aspect or two to flesh out their story on the fly.
```

The GM can even bundle multiple NPCs together on the same character sheet!

> An unruly mob can be represented as a single NPC with the aspect Torches and Pitchforks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An unruly mob can be represented as a single NPC with the aspect `Torches and Pitchforks`.
```

> This allows the players to interact with the NPCs without needing to manage a large number of individual characters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This helps keep bookkeeping manageable, even as the PCs interact with a large number of NPCs.
```

Could be better, trying to flip from a negative to a positive

# Conflicts

Most of the gameplay in {GameName} consists of roleplaying, with occasional dice rolls to determine the path the story takes.
However, there are times when the PCs are acting in opposition to something or someone.

> These situations are where you use conflicts.

Reviewer: I don't love this. Aren't you always roleplaying? Maybe most of the gameplay is conversational? Or unstructured back-and-forth?

Conflicts are a tool for structuring play when you run into a situation where you want to roll a shit-ass of dice.

A conflict is any situation where the PCs are up against opponents.

> This can include battles with mythical creatures or other enemies,

Reviewer: Yeah yeah yeah it's general and you can use it for anything. But mostly it's for fights.

negotiations to broker a peace treaty between warring factions,
or even a race against time to see if the PCs can get to the capital ahead of their rival's army.

<!-- TODO: Do we still have turns? -->

Pretty much the same as roleplaying, but:
- Different pacing due to lots of rolls
- Map, optionally, depending on the situation
- Worrying about stress and consequences

## Stress and Consequences

<!-- TODO: Are all aspects rated? And you invoke them you get the bonus??! -->

> PCs have three Consequence aspects, with ratings of +1, +2, +3.

Reviewer: They have blank spaces for consequences, right?

I think in Fate Core they're +2, +4, +6. Figuring out numbers for real probably requires playtesting

These aspects start the game blank and are filled in by the player when their PC is harmed by something, like a rival NPC or even the environment.
Consequence aspects allow players to choose how their PCs are affected by failures, providing a sense of control over their character's story.

NPCs can have different number and ratings of Consequence aspects.

> For example, a very challenging NPC might have several low-rating Consequence aspects to allow them to withstand a lot of harm.

Reviewer: Reading this makes me like checkboxes

> On the other hand, a weak NPC might only have a single Consequence aspect, allowing them to be knocked out with a single good blow.

Reviewer: Zero consequences, not one? Checking your last box doesn't knock you out in Fate Core. You get knocked out when you get hit with stress that you cannot (or choose not to) absorb with checkboxes and consequences

The number and rating of Consequence aspects for NPCs is determined by the GM as appropriate for the specific NPC and the situation.

If a character fills in all of their Consequence aspects, they are removed from the current conflict.
This does not mean the character is "dead"---many classic stories have the hero or villain appear to meet their end only to show up at an critical moment.

> But it does mean the character takes no more actions for the rest of the scene.

Reviewer: GMs don't kill PCs. Player has to agree. GM can offer heroic or dramatic circumstances if they want to convince the player to kill off the PC I guess

Otherwise you can always get knocked off the boat, pass out in a gutter, etc. Any movie trope you want where a hero is out (for now)

<!-- TODO: Really?
How does this next part work in practice?
Gotta get a fate point right because the GM is narrating your character! -->
The player can shape what happens to their PC by writing down their final Consequence aspect.
The GM uses this aspect to craft the narrative.
The player is given a Fate Point when their character is taken out, because losing narrative control is a Compel.
 
<!-- TODO:
Recovery fits here too
-->

## Drawing a Map

<!-- TODO: Diagrams -->

> In general the exact location of characters does not matter, but there are times when it is critical, such as during a sword fight.

Reviewer: Get "theatricality" in here?

Maybe try to flip negative to positive here?  

In a fight, you need to know who's within arm's reach, who's within a few paces, and who's within sight.
{GameName} handles that with zones.

In these cases, maps can be used to keep track of characters' positions and movements.
Maps are not highly detailed, instead they are broken up into broad Zones.
This allows players and the GM to quickly and easily understand the layout of the space without getting bogged down in unnecessary details.

Characters in the same zone can interact with each other and any object in the zone.
However, they need permission from one of their aspects to interact with things outside the zone.
A character may move to an adjacent zone on their turn in addition to their action.

Zones can also have aspects, which may restrict free movement or visibility between zones. 
Consider what makes sense from a narrative perspective when deciding whether a character can move or act over a zone boundary.

> > The _Angry Pig_ is circling a mountain outpost exchanging canon fire after a failed attempt to bypass the Empire's northern boarder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The _Angry Pig_ is circling a mountain outpost exchanging cannon fire after a failed attempt to bypass the Empire's northern border.
```

Skills were actually the thing that made this weird.
With just aspects, you can roll for whatever makes sense

## Abstract Forces?

> Time can be an NPC?

Reviewer: uhhhhh
